# Dark Algorithm Conspiracy

There’s been a grisly murder in the city. Irrefutable proof pointing to one woman is everywhere online: Leaked surveillance footage; an IM voice-note confession; incriminating social media photos and posts. You click away from an article you’ve been reading as a ding notifies you of a new email. “You have to help me”, it reads, “Because what they are doing to me now, they are going to do to you next”. You glance at the sender’s name and instantly recognize it as that of the supposed murderer.  

Welcome to **The Dark Algorithm** Conspiracy, an interactive browser-based mystery that throw participants into a speculative world where the search for truth is obscured by machine-learning multimedia forgeries and hyper-personalised AI disinformation campaigns that can turn anyone's online reality inside-out. Unlike other web-based games or interactive narratives, Dark Algorithm does not take place inside a single web-page. Rather, it unfolds as part of the participant’s own online reality through a series of fictional webpages, uploaded videos, social posts, ‘hidden’ online files, and other digital breadcrumbs forming an intricate and immersive narrative network to explore. 

At the centre of Dark Algorithm is a cross-browser plugin participants install. The plugin manipulate on-page CSS and DOM elements such as images and text, creating an increasingly immersive aesthetic experience for participants and tying the narrative network together. A face on a fake image might slightly jump - a snippet of computer code becomes visible as a fake social post loads. These little glitches are ways to snap viewers out of taken-for-granted assumptions about their media interactions, showing glimpses of the software that produce and propagate digital media. Participants’ browsers become uncanny machines, with nothing they encounter online to be taken at face value. Through these subtle manipulations the plugin will inject narrative elements, triggers, and events into the user’s browsing experiences as they visit pages across the Web as they follow the digital clues that will lead them to the truth… whatever that may look like. 

## A Pertinent Issue

It is in the narrative that Dark Algorithm more directly address the problematic nexus of digital media, AI technology, and the increasing algorithmic manipulation of truth on the internet. Its narrative universe is a dystopian reflection of our current technological reality where automated natural language allows algorithms to pass conversational Turing tests or impersonate idiolectic speech. Synthetic multimedia becomes commonplace as machine learning algorithms can now generate virtual puppets of real people and alter photographic and video evidence with shocking veracity. 

Participants explore the extrapolated implications of these technologies through Dark Algorithm’s narrative as they gradually uncover a secretive startup called Meeple behind the murder conspiracy. In the depths of their R&D department is an AI disinformation machine that can be wielded against any public target to destroy their lives, creating a vast network of falsified information by studying the target’s personal data and launching a PsyOp of digitally created and propagated disinformation so convincing that even the innocent target start believing its lies. It is an important part of the narrative to realize that the danger of media manipulation is not in its technicity, but in how it exploits human vulnerabilities. You will have to ask yourself: Just how deep does the rabbit-hole go? Perhaps the woman you’ve been talking to is herself a figment of the Dark Algorithm? Perhaps you’ve been the real target from the beginning. Throughout its twisting plot, Dark Algorithm asks participants: If what we see online cannot be trusted anymore, what is the path to finding the truth?
